docs/source/code-generation/codegen-cli.mdx, before:

---
title: The Codegen CLI
---

import SPMInstallCLI from "../../shared/cli-install/spm.mdx"
import SPMXcodeInstallCLI from "../../shared/cli-install/spm-xcode.mdx"
import PodsInstallCLI from "../../shared/cli-install/pods.mdx"

The Codegen CLI provides a command line tool that streamlines the process of running code generation. The CLI can be ran manually from Terminal (or any other shell program) or can be called into from bash scripts.

The Codegen CLI has three primary commands:

- [**Initialize**](#initialize): Initializes an `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file that can be used to [configure how the CLI generates code](./codegen-configuration).
- [**Fetch Schema**](#fetch-schema): Fetches your GraphQL schema and writes it to a file. The schema is required in order to run code generation.
  - To learn how to configure schema fetching, see [Downloading a schema](./downloading-schema).
- [**Generate**](#generate): Runs the code generation engine using the configuration in your `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file.

> For detailed usage documentation of these commands, see the [Usage](#usage) section.

## Installation

When Apollo iOS is included as a dependency through Swift Package Manager (SPM) or Cocoapods, the CLI is built and packaged with the dependency automatically. This ensures you always have a valid version of the CLI for the version of Apollo iOS you are using and you never have to worry about installation or updates.

To learn how to run the Codegen CLI with your chosen package manager, open the appropriate section:

<ExpansionPanel title="SPM with Package.swift">

<SPMInstallCLI />

</ExpansionPanel>

<ExpansionPanel title="SPM with Xcode Project">

<SPMXcodeInstallCLI />

</ExpansionPanel>

<ExpansionPanel title="Cocoapods">

<PodsInstallCLI />

</ExpansionPanel>

<ExpansionPanel title="Pre-built Binary">

Each [release](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-ios/releases) of Apollo iOS in GitHub has a pre-built CLI binary attached. This binary can be downloaded and moved to any local directory that is convenient for you.

After downloading the binary, you can run the Codegen CLI from the directory where it is located:

```bash
./apollo-ios-cli ${Command Name} -${Command Arguments}
```

</ExpansionPanel>

<ExpansionPanel title="Build it Yourself">

If you are not using SPM or Cocoapods, and do not want to use the pre-built CLI binary, you can compile the CLI manually. Once you've cloned the Apollo iOS git repo, use Terminal to go into that cloned directory and run the following command:

```bash
make build-cli
```

This will compile the Codegen CLI which you will find at `.build/release/apollo-ios-cli`. You can run the CLI from this directory, move it to another location, or add it to your shell's `$PATH`.

```bash
./.build/release/apollo-ios-cli ${Command Name} -${Command Arguments}
```

</ExpansionPanel>

## Usage

The Apollo iOS Codegen CLI is a command like utility for Apollo iOS code generation.

#### `apollo-ios-cli <subcommand>`

#### Options:

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--version`  | Show the version of the CLI. |
| `-h, --help` | Show help information.       |

#### Subcommands:

| Command | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `init`         | Initialize a new configuration with defaults. |
| `generate`     | Generate Swift source code based on a code generation configuration. |
| `fetch-schema` | Download a GraphQL schema from the Apollo Registry or GraphQL introspection. |

See `apollo-ios-cli help <subcommand>` for detailed help.

### Initialize

Creates an `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file with default values. The Codegen CLI reads this file to [configure how the CLI generates code](./codegen-configuration).

The default configuration will:
- Find all GraphQL schema files ending with the file extension `.graphqls` within your project directory.
- Find all GraphQL operation and fragment definition files ending with the file extension `.graphql` within your project directory.
- Create a Swift Package for your generated schema with the `schema-name` provided.
- Generate operation and fragment models relative to the `.graphql` files that define them.

> For more information on configuring code generation, see the [configuration documentation](./codegen-configuration).

#### Command:

`apollo-ios-cli init [--schema-name <schema name>] [--module-type <module type>] [--target-name <target name>]`

#### Options:

| Option     | Description |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| `--schema-name`     | **[Required]** The name you would like to be used as the namespace for your generated schema files. |
| `--module-type`     | **[Required]** How to package the schema types for dependency management. Possible types are `embeddedInTarget`, `swiftPackageManager`, `other`. |
| `--target-name`     | Name of the target in which the schema types files will be manually embedded.<br/><br/>*Note: This is required for the "embeddedInTarget" module type and will be ignored for all other module types.* |
| `-p, --path <path>` | Write the configuration to a file at the path. (default: `./apollo-codegen-config.json`) |
| `-w, --overwrite`   | Overwrite any file at `--path`. If init is called without `--overwrite` and a config file already exists at `--path`, the command will fail. |
| `-s, --print`       | Print the configuration to stdout. |
| `--version`         | Show the version of the CLI. |
| `-h, --help`        | Show help information.       |

### Fetch Schema

Downloads a GraphQL schema from the Apollo Registry or GraphQL introspection and writes it to a file. The schema is required in order to run code generation.

> For more information on schema fetching, see [Downloading a schema](./downloading-schema).

#### Command:

`apollo-ios-cli fetch-schema [--path <path>] [--string <string>]`

#### Options:

| Option     | Description |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| `-p, --path <path>`     | Read the configuration from a file at the path. `--string` overrides this option if used together. (default: `./apollo-codegen-config.json`) |
| `-s, --string <string>` | Provide the configuration string in JSON format. This option overrides `--path`. |
| `-v, --verbose `        | Increase verbosity to include debug output. |
| `--version`             | Show the version of the CLI. |
| `-h, --help`            | Show help information.|

### Generate

Runs the code generation engine to generate Swift source code using the configuration in your `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file.

> For more information on configuring code generation, see the [configuration documentation](./codegen-configuration).

#### Command:

`apollo-ios-cli generate [--path <path>] [--string <string>]`

#### Options:

| Option     | Description |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| `-p, --path <path>`     | Read the configuration from a file at the path. `--string` overrides this option if used together. (default: `./apollo-codegen-config.json`) |
| `-s, --string <string>` | Provide the configuration string in JSON format. This option overrides `--path`. |
| `-v, --verbose `        | Increase verbosity to include debug output. |
| `-f, --fetch-schema`    | Fetch the GraphQL schema before Swift code generation. This runs the [`fetch-schema`](#fetch-schema) command. |
| `--version`             | Show the version of the CLI. |
| `-h, --help`            | Show help information.|

Commit message:

feature: Adding CLI command for Operation Manifest (#3152)

docs/source/code-generation/codegen-cli.mdx, after:

---
title: The Codegen CLI
---

import SPMInstallCLI from "../../shared/cli-install/spm.mdx"
import SPMXcodeInstallCLI from "../../shared/cli-install/spm-xcode.mdx"
import PodsInstallCLI from "../../shared/cli-install/pods.mdx"

The Codegen CLI provides a command line tool that streamlines the process of running code generation. The CLI can be ran manually from Terminal (or any other shell program) or can be called into from bash scripts.

The Codegen CLI has three primary commands:

- [**Initialize**](#initialize): Initializes an `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file that can be used to [configure how the CLI generates code](./codegen-configuration).
- [**Fetch Schema**](#fetch-schema): Fetches your GraphQL schema and writes it to a file. The schema is required in order to run code generation.
  - To learn how to configure schema fetching, see [Downloading a schema](./downloading-schema).
- [**Generate**](#generate): Runs the code generation engine using the configuration in your `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file.
- [**Generate Operation Manifest**](#generate-operation-manifest): Generates the operation manifest for persisted queries using the configuration in your `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file.

> For detailed usage documentation of these commands, see the [Usage](#usage) section.

## Installation

When Apollo iOS is included as a dependency through Swift Package Manager (SPM) or Cocoapods, the CLI is built and packaged with the dependency automatically. This ensures you always have a valid version of the CLI for the version of Apollo iOS you are using and you never have to worry about installation or updates.

To learn how to run the Codegen CLI with your chosen package manager, open the appropriate section:

<ExpansionPanel title="SPM with Package.swift">

<SPMInstallCLI />

</ExpansionPanel>

<ExpansionPanel title="SPM with Xcode Project">

<SPMXcodeInstallCLI />

</ExpansionPanel>

<ExpansionPanel title="Cocoapods">

<PodsInstallCLI />

</ExpansionPanel>

<ExpansionPanel title="Pre-built Binary">

Each [release](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-ios/releases) of Apollo iOS in GitHub has a pre-built CLI binary attached. This binary can be downloaded and moved to any local directory that is convenient for you.

After downloading the binary, you can run the Codegen CLI from the directory where it is located:

```bash
./apollo-ios-cli ${Command Name} -${Command Arguments}
```

</ExpansionPanel>

<ExpansionPanel title="Build it Yourself">

If you are not using SPM or Cocoapods, and do not want to use the pre-built CLI binary, you can compile the CLI manually. Once you've cloned the Apollo iOS git repo, use Terminal to go into that cloned directory and run the following command:

```bash
make build-cli
```

This will compile the Codegen CLI which you will find at `.build/release/apollo-ios-cli`. You can run the CLI from this directory, move it to another location, or add it to your shell's `$PATH`.

```bash
./.build/release/apollo-ios-cli ${Command Name} -${Command Arguments}
```

</ExpansionPanel>

## Usage

The Apollo iOS Codegen CLI is a command like utility for Apollo iOS code generation.

#### `apollo-ios-cli <subcommand>`

#### Options:

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--version`  | Show the version of the CLI. |
| `-h, --help` | Show help information.       |

#### Subcommands:

| Command | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `init`         | Initialize a new configuration with defaults. |
| `generate`     | Generate Swift source code based on a code generation configuration. |
| `fetch-schema` | Download a GraphQL schema from the Apollo Registry or GraphQL introspection. |

See `apollo-ios-cli help <subcommand>` for detailed help.

### Initialize

Creates an `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file with default values. The Codegen CLI reads this file to [configure how the CLI generates code](./codegen-configuration).

The default configuration will:
- Find all GraphQL schema files ending with the file extension `.graphqls` within your project directory.
- Find all GraphQL operation and fragment definition files ending with the file extension `.graphql` within your project directory.
- Create a Swift Package for your generated schema with the `schema-name` provided.
- Generate operation and fragment models relative to the `.graphql` files that define them.

> For more information on configuring code generation, see the [configuration documentation](./codegen-configuration).

#### Command:

`apollo-ios-cli init [--schema-name <schema name>] [--module-type <module type>] [--target-name <target name>]`

#### Options:

| Option     | Description |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| `--schema-name`     | **[Required]** The name you would like to be used as the namespace for your generated schema files. |
| `--module-type`     | **[Required]** How to package the schema types for dependency management. Possible types are `embeddedInTarget`, `swiftPackageManager`, `other`. |
| `--target-name`     | Name of the target in which the schema types files will be manually embedded.<br/><br/>*Note: This is required for the "embeddedInTarget" module type and will be ignored for all other module types.* |
| `-p, --path <path>` | Write the configuration to a file at the path. (default: `./apollo-codegen-config.json`) |
| `-w, --overwrite`   | Overwrite any file at `--path`. If init is called without `--overwrite` and a config file already exists at `--path`, the command will fail. |
| `-s, --print`       | Print the configuration to stdout. |
| `--version`         | Show the version of the CLI. |
| `-h, --help`        | Show help information.       |

### Fetch Schema

Downloads a GraphQL schema from the Apollo Registry or GraphQL introspection and writes it to a file. The schema is required in order to run code generation.

> For more information on schema fetching, see [Downloading a schema](./downloading-schema).

#### Command:

`apollo-ios-cli fetch-schema [--path <path>] [--string <string>]`

#### Options:

| Option     | Description |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| `-p, --path <path>`     | Read the configuration from a file at the path. `--string` overrides this option if used together. (default: `./apollo-codegen-config.json`) |
| `-s, --string <string>` | Provide the configuration string in JSON format. This option overrides `--path`. |
| `-v, --verbose `        | Increase verbosity to include debug output. |
| `--version`             | Show the version of the CLI. |
| `-h, --help`            | Show help information.|

### Generate

Runs the code generation engine to generate Swift source code using the configuration in your `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file.

> For more information on configuring code generation, see the [configuration documentation](./codegen-configuration).

#### Command:

`apollo-ios-cli generate [--path <path>] [--string <string>]`

#### Options:

| Option     | Description |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| `-p, --path <path>`            | Read the configuration from a file at the path. `--string` overrides this option if used together. (default: `./apollo-codegen-config.json`) |
| `-s, --string <string>`        | Provide the configuration string in JSON format. This option overrides `--path`. |
| `-v, --verbose `               | Increase verbosity to include debug output. |
| `-f, --fetch-schema`           | Fetch the GraphQL schema before Swift code generation. This runs the [`fetch-schema`](#fetch-schema) command. |
| `--ignore-version-mismatch`    | Ignores version mismatches between the `apollo-ios-cli` and the version of the Apollo sdk being used. |
| `--version`                    | Show the version of the CLI. |
| `-h, --help`                   | Show help information.|

### Generate Operation Manifest

Generates the operation manifest for persisted queries using the configuration in your `apollo-codegen-configuration.json` file.

> For more information on configuring code generation, see the [configuration documentation](./codegen-configuration).

#### Command:

`apollo-ios-cli generate-operation-manifest [--path <path>] [--string <string>]`

#### Options:

| Option     | Description |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| `-p, --path <path>`            | Read the configuration from a file at the path. `--string` overrides this option if used together. (default: `./apollo-codegen-config.json`) |
| `-s, --string <string>`        | Provide the configuration string in JSON format. This option overrides `--path`. |
| `-v, --verbose `               | Increase verbosity to include debug output. |
| `--ignore-version-mismatch`    | Ignores version mismatches between the `apollo-ios-cli` and the version of the Apollo sdk being used. |
| `--version`                    | Show the version of the CLI. |
| `-h, --help`                   | Show help information.|
