docs/source/api/Apollo/classes/GraphQLResponse.md, before:

**CLASS**

# `GraphQLResponse`

```swift
public final class GraphQLResponse<Data: GraphQLSelectionSet>
```

Represents a GraphQL response received from a server.

## Properties
### `body`

```swift
public let body: JSONObject
```

## Methods
### `init(operation:body:)`

```swift
public init<Operation: GraphQLOperation>(operation: Operation, body: JSONObject) where Operation.Data == Data
```

### `parseResult(cacheKeyForObject:)`

```swift
public func parseResult(cacheKeyForObject: CacheKeyForObject? = nil) throws -> (GraphQLResult<Data>, RecordSet?)
```

Parses a response into a `GraphQLResult` and a `RecordSet`.
The result can be sent to a completion block for a request.
The `RecordSet` can be merged into a local cache.
- Parameter cacheKeyForObject: See `CacheKeyForObject`
- Returns: A `GraphQLResult` and a `RecordSet`.

#### Parameters

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| cacheKeyForObject | See `CacheKeyForObject` |

### `parseErrorsOnlyFast()`

```swift
public func parseErrorsOnlyFast() -> [GraphQLError]?
```

### `parseResultFast()`

```swift
public func parseResultFast() throws -> GraphQLResult<Data>
```

Commit message:

Fixing API Reference Docs for 1.0 (#2363)
* Rerun docu generator

* try to fix netlify

* Test

* WIP

* Added Doccarchives to docs folder

* Add a Netlify config to the docc directory (#2366)

* Create netlify.toml

* Update netlify.toml

* Update SwiftScripts to generate docc archives

* point api reference to docc sites

* Remove SourceDocs

* Pretty Print xcode archive

* Update to use swift docC plugin

* fix

* Try generating dosc with --transform-for-static-hosting

* Revert "Try generating dosc with --transform-for-static-hosting"

This reverts commit fd7e6346e74625a9f0d2ad5160e6db0528b85d59.

* Test adding document catalog to Apollo

* Test Custom Rendered docc template

* Attempt to bundle documentation

* Generate docs with new base path and delete archives after merging

* Add root documentation json file to generated doc archive

* Adding document catalogs to libraries

* Add documentation catalog for ApolloSQLite

* Add Documentation Catalog for ApolloWebSocket

* add Apollo Utils to root index

* Replace documentation root json with top-level index page in doc catalog

* Fix broken link

* Update rendering agent

* Minor doc fix

* Update renderer to fix documentation index nav link

* Fix code in pre block rendering

* Setup docc renderer in submodule

* Regenerate docs

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Calvin Cestari <calvincestari@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update .gitmodules

Co-authored-by: Calvin Cestari <calvincestari@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Trevor Blades <tdblades@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Calvin Cestari <calvincestari@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/api/Apollo/classes/GraphQLResponse.md, after:

**CLASS**

# `GraphQLResponse`

```swift
public final class GraphQLResponse<Data: RootSelectionSet>
```

Represents a GraphQL response received from a server.

## Properties
### `body`

```swift
public let body: JSONObject
```

## Methods
### `init(operation:body:)`

```swift
public init<Operation: GraphQLOperation>(operation: Operation, body: JSONObject) where Operation.Data == Data
```

### `parseResult()`

```swift
public func parseResult() throws -> (GraphQLResult<Data>, RecordSet?)
```

Parses a response into a `GraphQLResult` and a `RecordSet`.
The result can be sent to a completion block for a request.
The `RecordSet` can be merged into a local cache.
- Returns: A `GraphQLResult` and a `RecordSet`.

### `parseResultFast()`

```swift
public func parseResultFast() throws -> GraphQLResult<Data>
```

Parses a response into a `GraphQLResult` for use without the cache. This parsing does not
create dependent keys or a `RecordSet` for the cache.

This is faster than `parseResult()` and should be used when cache the response is not needed.
