docs/source/api/ApolloCodegenLib/structs/ApolloSchemaDownloadConfiguration.md, before:

**STRUCT**

# `ApolloSchemaDownloadConfiguration`

```swift
public struct ApolloSchemaDownloadConfiguration
```

A configuration object that defines behavior for schema download.

## Properties
### `downloadMethod`

```swift
public let downloadMethod: DownloadMethod
```

How to download your schema. Supports the Apollo Registry and GraphQL Introspection methods.

### `downloadTimeout`

```swift
public let downloadTimeout: Double
```

The maximum time to wait before indicating that the download timed out, in seconds. Defaults to 30 seconds.

### `headers`

```swift
public let headers: [HTTPHeader]
```

Any additional headers to include when retrieving your schema. Defaults to nil.

### `outputURL`

```swift
public let outputURL: URL
```

The URL of the folder in which the downloaded schema should be written.

## Methods
### `init(using:timeout:headers:outputFolderURL:schemaFilename:)`

```swift
public init(using downloadMethod: DownloadMethod,
            timeout downloadTimeout: Double = 30.0,
            headers: [HTTPHeader] = [],
            outputFolderURL: URL,
            schemaFilename: String = "schema")
```

Designated Initializer

- Parameters:
  - downloadMethod: How to download your schema.
  - downloadTimeout: The maximum time to wait before indicating that the download timed out, in seconds. Defaults to 30 seconds.
  - headers: [optional] Any additional headers to include when retrieving your schema. Defaults to nil
  - outputFolderURL: The URL of the folder in which the downloaded schema should be written
  - schemaFilename: The name, without an extension, for your schema file. Defaults to `"schema"

#### Parameters

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| downloadMethod | How to download your schema. |
| downloadTimeout | The maximum time to wait before indicating that the download timed out, in seconds. Defaults to 30 seconds. |
| headers | [optional] Any additional headers to include when retrieving your schema. Defaults to nil |
| outputFolderURL | The URL of the folder in which the downloaded schema should be written |
| schemaFilename | The name, without an extension, for your schema file. Defaults to `“schema” |

Commit message:

Fixing API Reference Docs for 1.0 (#2363)
* Rerun docu generator

* try to fix netlify

* Test

* WIP

* Added Doccarchives to docs folder

* Add a Netlify config to the docc directory (#2366)

* Create netlify.toml

* Update netlify.toml

* Update SwiftScripts to generate docc archives

* point api reference to docc sites

* Remove SourceDocs

* Pretty Print xcode archive

* Update to use swift docC plugin

* fix

* Try generating dosc with --transform-for-static-hosting

* Revert "Try generating dosc with --transform-for-static-hosting"

This reverts commit fd7e6346e74625a9f0d2ad5160e6db0528b85d59.

* Test adding document catalog to Apollo

* Test Custom Rendered docc template

* Attempt to bundle documentation

* Generate docs with new base path and delete archives after merging

* Add root documentation json file to generated doc archive

* Adding document catalogs to libraries

* Add documentation catalog for ApolloSQLite

* Add Documentation Catalog for ApolloWebSocket

* add Apollo Utils to root index

* Replace documentation root json with top-level index page in doc catalog

* Fix broken link

* Update rendering agent

* Minor doc fix

* Update renderer to fix documentation index nav link

* Fix code in pre block rendering

* Setup docc renderer in submodule

* Regenerate docs

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Calvin Cestari <calvincestari@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update .gitmodules

Co-authored-by: Calvin Cestari <calvincestari@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Trevor Blades <tdblades@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Calvin Cestari <calvincestari@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/api/ApolloCodegenLib/structs/ApolloSchemaDownloadConfiguration.md, after:

**STRUCT**

# `ApolloSchemaDownloadConfiguration`

```swift
public struct ApolloSchemaDownloadConfiguration: Equatable, Codable
```

A configuration object that defines behavior for schema download.

## Properties
### `downloadMethod`

```swift
public let downloadMethod: DownloadMethod
```

How to download your schema. Supports the Apollo Registry and GraphQL Introspection methods.

### `downloadTimeout`

```swift
public let downloadTimeout: Double
```

The maximum time (in seconds) to wait before indicating that the download timed out.
Defaults to 30 seconds.

### `headers`

```swift
public let headers: [HTTPHeader]
```

Any additional headers to include when retrieving your schema. Defaults to nil.

### `outputPath`

```swift
public let outputPath: String
```

The local path where the downloaded schema should be written to.

### `outputFormat`

```swift
public var outputFormat: DownloadMethod.OutputFormat
```

## Methods
### `init(using:timeout:headers:outputPath:)`

```swift
public init(
  using downloadMethod: DownloadMethod,
  timeout downloadTimeout: Double = 30.0,
  headers: [HTTPHeader] = [],
  outputPath: String
)
```

Designated Initializer

- Parameters:
  - downloadMethod: How to download your schema.
  - downloadTimeout: The maximum time (in seconds) to wait before indicating that the
  download timed out. Defaults to 30 seconds.
  - headers: [optional] Any additional headers to include when retrieving your schema.
  Defaults to nil
  - outputPath: The local path where the downloaded schema should be written to.

#### Parameters

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| downloadMethod | How to download your schema. |
| downloadTimeout | The maximum time (in seconds) to wait before indicating that the download timed out. Defaults to 30 seconds. |
| headers | [optional] Any additional headers to include when retrieving your schema. Defaults to nil |
| outputPath | The local path where the downloaded schema should be written to. |
